$ rstory | tformat





                     Generated on Tue Sep  8 04:46:06 2026






      Once upon a time there was a retired seamstress who went  to  market  and
bought  a  dog.  On the way home they came upon a fallen tree which the dog was
afraid to cross. The retired seamstress said "dog, dog, jump  over  the  fallen
tree  or  I  won't  get  home  tonight."   But  the dog would not.  The retired
seamstress went down the path and she  met  a  scissor.   She  said,  "scissor,
scissor,  snip dog,   dog won't jump over the fallen tree and I shan't get home
tonight."  But the scissor would not.  The retired seamstress went down the path
and she met a girl.  She said, "girl, girl, break scissor, scissor  won't  snip
the  dog,   dog won't jump over the fallen tree and I shan't get home tonight."
But the girl would not.  The retired seamstress went down the path and she met a
bee.  She said, "bee, bee, sting girl,  girl won't break the scissor,   scissor
won't snip the dog,   dog won't jump over the fallen tree and I shan't get home
tonight."  But the bee would not. The retired seamstress went down the path and
she  met  a  hunter.  She said, "hunter, hunter, swat bee,  bee won't sting the
girl,  girl won't break the scissor, scissor won't snip the  dog,    dog  won't
jump over the fallen tree and I shan't get home tonight."  But the hunter would
not.   The  retired  seamstress went on the road to the red house and she met a
fire.  She said, "fire, fire, burn hunter,  hunter won't swat the bee, bee won't
sting the girl,  girl won't break the scissor, scissor won't snip the dog,   dog
won't jump over the fallen tree and I shan't get home tonight."  The fire  knew
the  retired  seamstress and, in fact, had been saved by her from a wild tiger.
So the  fire began to burn the hunter; the  hunter began to swat the  bee;  the
bee began to sting the girl; the  girl began to break the scissor; the  scissor
began  to  snip  the  dog;  the  dog began to jump over the fallen tree and the
retired seamstress got home that night.
