XLATE - A 6809 to 68000 Lssembly Language Converter---------------------------------------------------Steven Weller, Windsor SystemsCopyright (c) 1994 Steven Weller502 425 9560 steve@barefoot.comWhat it is----------Xlate is a simple-ish line-by-line translator for 6809 assembler.It was based on a similarly-named program written by Paul Dayanin 1986 in Basic09, and was used to convert Dynacalc from 6809to 68000.What it does------------Xlate will cut the work of a hand translation at least in half. Itcarries out the following actions:* Translation of mnemonics and pseudo-ops* Translation of arguments* Translation of addressing modes* Addition of size extensions to the mnemonics* Converts the 'C quoting style to the 68000 'C' style* Translates PULS and PSHS and other stack operations to movem.l* Converts periods to underscores in label names and arguments* Identifies and converts data areas into vects* Allows the user to select 6809 to 68000 register mapping* Can produce 68000 or 68020 opcodes with optional full-format addressing* Selectable branch and BSR size mapping* Selectable register size mapping* Warns the user of impossible or approximate mnemonic conversions* Can optionally convert everything to lower case while  leaving quoted strings intact* Can optionally include the old 6809 code as a 68000 commentsLimitations-----------The translation is a simple conversion of 6809 assembly languageto 68000 assembly language. It is NOT very clever. It will translatethe mnemonics to try and achieve the same basic physical result.However, you must then go over the 68000 source line by lineto ensure that the software will perform the desired function. Someimportant areas to consider are:* Lengths of variables etc. The translator uses the size inherent in the  6809 instruction, or LONG if the instruction involves only  registers. The translator translates all RMB statements to DS.B  statements. You may wish to, for example, then globally  change all DS.B 2 to DS.W 1, to use 16-bit variables in place of  8-bit.* Word alignment. Whereas the 6809 can perform 16-bit loads and stores  at any address, the 68000 requires that they be at even addresses.  Where this is for static variables or data tables the problem is  best resolved by changing all DS.B 2 to DS.W 1, (as mentioned  above), whereupon the assembler will perform the alignment  automatically.* The carry flag. Whereas most 6809 instructions don't affect the carry  flag, most 68000 instructions clear it. The translator takes no  account of this. Also, COMA and COMB are frequently used in 6809  code to set the carry flag. The equivalent instruction for the  68000, NOT, does not set the carry flag.* Load/store of address registers. On the 6809 these affect the Z flag  in the condition codes. Not so on the 68000!* The D register. The 6809 D register is a concatenation of the A and B  registers. The translator ignores this, and uses a third data  register to replace D. So code sections that use A and B to make up  D, or vice versa, will need changing.What you may use it for-----------------------Translate whatever you like. No guarantees of success, mind you !About the code--------------The code was originally written in 1987 and has been added to ever since.It is not ANSI and could use a really good makeover. It is not intendedto be bulletproof and probably has many bugs. The very nature of what itis doing makes it a hodge-podge of special cases and inaccurate generalizations.What you may do to it---------------------I retain copyright, but permit you to modify and distribute the codeas you wish. You must supply the source if requested. You may modify it as long as you mark your modifications and leave everything that you donot need to touch intact, including the copyright notices. Not to be usedfor profit.This package contains:* This read.me file* Source of xlate: xlate.c, xlate.h, static.h, and a makefile.* Some test and example 6809 files* Translations of the 6809 files* Object of xlate (68000)* Object of a utility called tabSince I do not know the origin of the two 'meaningful' test files, I have modified the two test files, I have stripped many comments from them and randomly rearranged and deleted lines to make then unusable as 'real' code.Future work-----------Apart from the obvious cleanups that the code needs, intrepid coders mightconsider the following:* Condition code tracking.  Follow the use of the flags in both sets of code and either warn the   user of CC differences or put code in that works.* Stack mapping.  Map the layout of the stack and adjust the offsets and sizes of  references to it accordingly.* Data area layout  Identify which labels should have ds.b and which should have d0.b. Do  the alignment correctly and adjust the offsets accordingly.* Multi-file tranalation  Make a symbol table and work out all the above for the whole program.* OS-9 system call translation  Change the register use so that the system calls are correct. Convert  the names of the system calls.The tab Utility---------------The utility 'tab' is included in this package. It tabulates 6809 and 68000 assembly language properly. Run it with xlate in the following manner:  $ xlate myfile.a ! tab -s -n >output.aBy default, tab will indent conditionals. The -s -n options suppress thisaction. Check tab out. It is very useful if you have code that will notassemble, but you need a listing of it. It will also unscramble heavily-nested conditionals. In fact it was written so that we could make senseof old SASI and SCSI drivers that had five or six levels of conditionals.It also knows about mnemonics that have no arguments and will lay out theline accordingly. Finally it will do a simple check of conditionalbalancing if you request it.Steven Weller